Release 3.2.0 (#678)
ruby/openssl: README.md

[![Actions Status](https://github.com/ruby/openssl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ruby/openssl/actions?workflow=CI)

OpenSSL for Ruby provides access to SSL/TLS and general-purpose cryptography
based on the OpenSSL library.

OpenSSL for Ruby is sometimes referred to as "openssl" (in all lowercase) or

> "Ruby/OpenSSL" for disambiguation.

Reviewer: How about the following 1 sentence with bold fonts? I was inspired for the style from the following 2 Wikipedia pages. I may be wrong. But I suppose the quote may not be used in the formal English for this purpose to define the words unlike Japanese brackets "「」".　The quotes may give an impression people that the word is ironic or not truth such as [air quotes](https://www.evilenglish.net/air-quotes/). Anyone, please correct me if I am wrong.

**OpenSSL for Ruby** also called **openssl** in all lowercase or **Ruby/OpenSSL** for disambiguation, provides access to SSL/TLS and general-purpose cryptography
based on the OpenSSL library.

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motherboard
  > A motherboard (also called mainboard, main circuit board, MB, mboard, backplane board, base board, system board, mobo; or in Apple computers logic board) is the main [printed circuit board](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printed_circuit_board) (PCB)...
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom
  > The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, commonly known as the United Kingdom (UK) or Britain,[[k]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom#cite_note-24)[[14]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom#cite_note-25) is an [island country](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Island_country) in [Northwestern Europe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northwestern_Europe) ...

Author: I agree using bold font fits better for this purpose. I still want to use two separate sentences because I feel I have too many SSLs in it to my liking.

Reviewer: Sure. That's okay.

## Compatibility and maintenance policy

OpenSSL for Ruby is released as a RubyGems gem. At the same time, it is part of
the standard library of Ruby. This is called a [default gem].

Stable branches of OpenSSL for Ruby will receive security and bug fixes for the

> [lifecycle of their corresponding Ruby branch][Ruby Maintenance Branches].

Reviewer: This? Not sure.

```
We only accept the security and bug fixes for the [Ruby maintenance branches in the life cycle][Ruby Maintenance Branches] for the stable branches of OpenSSL for Ruby.
```

Author: I think "branch/release will receive fixes/updates" is often used in similar contexts. I took a hint from the linked ruby-lang.org page which contains "[b]ranch receives general bug fixes and security fixes".

However, I figure I could simplify it more to something like the below. What do you think?

```suggestion
Each stable branch of OpenSSL for Ruby will remain supported as long as it is
included as a default gem in [supported Ruby branches][Ruby Maintenance Branches].
```

Reviewer: OK. It looks nice. By the way, I am not familiar with the "Suggested change" feature on GitHub. (And I want to utilize it :)) The suggested change above is for the current line 17, but maybe you want to change the current lines 16 and 17.

Author: I wanted to do so, but I wasn't able to figure out how to change the lines. I think the original comment was attached to the line 17 only.

> |Branch|Maintenance status             |Ruby compatibility|OpenSSL compatibility                       |

Reviewer: I was not able to understand what the Branch column meant. Which repository's branch?

Reviewer: I see. I was confused. Because the stable (git) branch names are `maint-X.Y`, not `X.Y` written in the document. And there is also no `maint-3.2` yet. If you use the X.Y for your intent, I feel that the column name is "Version of OpenSSL for Ruby" rather than "Branch".

Author: That makes sense. However I wasn't able to fit "Version of OpenSSL for Ruby" or "OpenSSL for Ruby" without creating line-wrapping, so I just used "Version" instead. Do you think this is clear enough?

Reviewer: I see. Thanks for explaining the context. And yes, the "Version" is clear enough to me.

|3.2   |normal maintenance (Ruby 3.3)  |Ruby 2.7+         |OpenSSL 1.0.2-3.1 (current) or LibreSSL 3.1+|
|3.1   |normal maintenance (Ruby 3.2)  |Ruby 2.6+         |OpenSSL 1.0.2-3.1 (current) or LibreSSL 3.1+|
|3.0   |normal maintenance (Ruby 3.1)  |Ruby 2.6+         |OpenSSL 1.0.2-3.1 (current) or LibreSSL 3.1+|
|2.2   |security maintenance (Ruby 3.0)|Ruby 2.3+         |OpenSSL 1.0.1-1.1.1 or LibreSSL 2.9+        |
|2.1   |end-of-life (Ruby 2.5-2.7)     |Ruby 2.3+         |OpenSSL 1.0.1-1.1.1 or LibreSSL 2.5+        |
|2.0   |end-of-life (Ruby 2.4)         |Ruby 2.3+         |OpenSSL 0.9.8-1.1.1 or LibreSSL 2.3+        |

[default gem]: https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/standard_library_rdoc.html
[Ruby Maintenance Branches]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/branches/

## Installation

> **Note**
> The openssl gem is included with Ruby by default, but you may wish to upgrade
> it to a newer version available at
> [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org/gems/openssl).

To upgrade it, you can use RubyGems:

```
gem install openssl
```

In some cases, it may be necessary to specify the path to the installation

> directory of the OpenSSL library.

Reviewer: Perhaps like this?

```
In some cases, you may need to specify the path to the directory where the OpenSSL library is installed.
```

Author: I don't have the vocabulary to explain this, but I believe "a car engine" is grammatical English.

That said, I don't have a preference on this. I just wanted to make it crystal clear which "OpenSSL" it refers to.

Reviewer: I am not sure if my suggestion is correct or not. I think you can keep the current sentence.

Author: I think both sentences are correct from the grammatical perspective. I didn't update this sentence, but I don't have an opinion either.

Reviewer: Sure, that's all right.
